{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh13640\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 243 Puzzle Solver, Project Part 3:  Water, Clock, Chess, Jam\
\
Your Name:Robert Matsch\
Your chosen new puzzle (Chess or Jam):Jam\
\
Teammate Name:raelyn janicke\
\
\
A. DESIGN\
---------\
\
1. Explain, in detail, the design of your new puzzle, and how it "connects"\
to your common solver.\
\
My new puzzle added more functions to handle the new puzzle.The design of the \
new puzzle had some difficulties connecting with my original implementation, because the way \
i expected a function to receive a config and after searching for the problem it was a compatibility\
issue.After i was done with the text based i planned to do the GUI but ran out of time.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
2. What changes did you need to make to your existing design for part 2?\
\
My existing design did not have to change at all.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
3. Did you and your partner work together on any part of this assignment?\
If so, what exactly?   Please note, this was completely acceptable.\
\
Me and my partner work on part II of the project together and then did our own thing on part III.\
\
\
\
\
\
B. TEAM INTERACTION\
-------------------\
\
4. I felt that _____A___ puzzle was harder then the other.\
\
    A. my\
    B. my teammate's\
    C. neither\
    \
On a scale of: \
\
    1: Strong disagree\
    2: Disagree\
    3. Neutral\
    4. Agree\
    5. Strong Agree\
\
answer the following questions:\
\
5. I contributed to my teammate's puzzle: __1__\
    \
6. My teammate contributed to my puzzle: ___1__\
\
7. If given the chance again, I would want to work with my teammate: __5___\
\
8. Please provide any additional feedback regarding your teammate.\
\
My teammate was a good help on part two. Both me and my teammate worked well \
together and got a chance to meet outside of class multiple times.\
\
\
\
\
9. What was the best part about being able to work on this project as a team?\
\
The best part of working on the project with a team ember is that the work is shared.\
With all the work and projects due this quarter i am glad i had a partner to help with one.\
\
\
\
10. Conversely, what was the worst part about being required to work in a team?\
\
There was no worst part for me but for others it would be getting along with partner and scheduling times to meet.\
\
\
\
\
\
C. INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTION\
--------------------------\
\
Using the same 1-5 scale, answer the following questions.\
\
11. I contributed to my puzzle: __4___\
\
12. I feel this is a good project to learn about OOP: __4___\
\
13. I personally learned a lot about OOP by doing this project: _4____\
\
14. I think this project was too difficult: ___3__\
\
15. The lectures and labs provided adequate background for this project: __4___\
\
16. Please provide any additional feedback you have regarding this project.\
The project was fun but there was many other project due at the same time so for the time given i feel the project went ok.\
}