{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red63\green95\blue191;\red127\green0\blue85;\red0\green0\blue192;
\red63\green127\blue95;\red42\green0\blue255;\red127\green159\blue191;\red127\green127\blue159;\red100\green100\blue100;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 /**\
 * Expression Tree of TreeNode objects, built from a prefix expression.\
 *\
 * NOTE:  Specific to Java version 5.0 --- Scanner\
 *\
 * The nodes are built by the recursive method "build", which calls\
 * itself for internal nodes; e.g.: node.setRight ( build ( input ) );\
 *\
 * Beyond construction, this supports display as prefix expression,\
 * postfix expression, and as parenthesized infix expression, as well\
 * as evaluation of the expression, returning the value;\
 *\
 * @author  Timothy Rolfe\
 */\
import java.util.Scanner;    // Specific to Java 1.5.x\
\
public class ExpressionTree\
\{\
   /**\
    * One node in an expression tree, allowing double values.\
    *\
    * @author  Timothy Rolfe\
    */\
   private static class TreeNode\
   \{\
      private final boolean  leaf;   // ?Is this a leaf? else internal\
      private final char     op;     // For an internal node, the operator\
      private       double   value;  // For a leaf, the value\
      private       TreeNode left,   // Left subexpression for an internal node\
                             right;  // Right subexpression\
\
      // Bare-bones constructor\
      private TreeNode ( boolean leaf, char op, double value )\
      \{\
         this.leaf    = leaf;\
         this.op      = op;\
         this.value   = value;\
         this.left    = null;   // Empty to start\
         this.right   = null;\
      \}\
\
      // For leaf nodes, show the value; for internal, the operator.\
      public String toString()    // To override Object.toString, must be public.\
      \{  return leaf ? Double.toString(value) : Character.toString(op) ;  \}\
   \}\
\
   TreeNode root = null;\
\
   public ExpressionTree ( Scanner input )\
   \{  root = build(input);  \}\
\
/**\
 * Based on a white-space delimited prefix expression, build the\
 * corresponding binary expression tree.\
 * @param  input  The scanner with the expression\
 * @return reference to the corresponding binary expression tree\
 */\
   private TreeNode build ( Scanner input )\
   \{\
      boolean  leaf;\
      String   token;\
      double   value;\
      TreeNode node;\
\
      leaf = input.hasNextDouble();\
      if ( leaf )\
      \{\
         value = input.nextDouble();\
         node = new TreeNode ( leaf, '\\0', value );\
      \}\
      else\
      \{\
         token = input.next();\
         node  = new TreeNode ( leaf, token.charAt(0), 0.0 );\
         node.left  = build ( input );\
         node.right = build ( input );\
      \}\
      return node;\
   \}\
\
/**\
 * Show the expression tree as a postfix expression.\
 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\
 */\
   public void showPostFix ()\
   \{\
      showPostFix ( root );\
      System.out.println();\
   \}\
\
   // Postfix expression is the result of a post-order traversal\
   private void showPostFix ( TreeNode node )\
   \{\
      if ( node != null )\
      \{\
         showPostFix ( node.left );\
         showPostFix ( node.right );\
         System.out.print ( node + " " );\
      \}\
   \}\
\
/**\
 * Show the expression tree as a prefix expression.\
 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\
 */\
   public void showPreFix ()\
   \{\
      showPreFix ( root );\
      System.out.println();\
   \}\
\
   // Prefix expression is the result of a pre-order traversal\
   private void showPreFix ( TreeNode node )\
   \{  // NOTE:  removing tail recursion\
      while ( node != null )\
      \{\
         System.out.print ( node + " " );\
         showPreFix ( node.left );\
         node = node.right;  // Update parameter for right traversal\
      \}\
   \}\
\
/**\
 * Show the expression tree as a parenthesized infix expression.\
 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\
 */\
   public void showInFix ()\
   \{\
      showInFix ( root );\
      System.out.println();\
   \}\
\
   // Parenthesized infix requires parentheses in both the\
   // pre-order and post-order positions, plus the node\
   // itself in the in-order position.\
   private void showInFix ( TreeNode node )\
   \{\
      if ( node != null )\
      \{\
         // Note:  do NOT parenthesize leaf nodes\
         if ( ! node.leaf )\
            System.out.print ("( ");        // Pre-order position\
         showInFix ( node.left );\
         System.out.print ( node + " " );   // In-order position\
         showInFix ( node.right );\
         if ( ! node.leaf )                 // Post-order position\
            System.out.print (") ");\
      \}\
   \}\
\
/**\
 * Evaluate the expression and return its value.\
 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\
 * @return  the value of the expression tree.\
 */\
   public double evaluate ()\
   \{  return root == null ? 0.0 : evaluate ( root ) ;  \}\
\
   // Evaluate the expression:  for internal nodes, this amounts\
   // to a post-order traversal, in which the processing is doing\
   // the actual arithmetic.  For leaf nodes, it is simply the\
   // value of the node.\
   private double evaluate ( TreeNode node )\
   \{\
      double result;    // Value to be returned\
\
      if ( node.leaf )        // Just get the value of the leaf\
         result = node.value;\
      else\
      \{\
         // We've got work to do, evaluating the expression\
         double left, right;\
         char   operator = node.op;\
\
         // Capture the values of the left and right subexpressions\
         left  = evaluate ( node.left );\
         right = evaluate ( node.right );\
\
         // Do the arithmetic, based on the operator\
         switch ( operator )\
         \{\
            case '-':  result = left - right;  break;\
            case '*':  result = left * right;  break;\
            case '/':  result = left / right;  break;\
            case '^':  result = Math.pow (left, right );  break;\
         // NOTE:  allow fall-through from default to case '+'\
            default:   System.out.println ("Unrecognized operator " +\
                          operator + " treated as +.");\
            case '+':  result = left + right;  break;\
         \}\
      \}\
      // Return either the leaf's value or the one we just calculated.\
      return result;\
   \}\
\}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf0 	\cf2 /**\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 	 * Show the expression tree as a \ul postfix\ulnone  expression.\cf0 \
\cf2 	 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\cf0 \
\cf2 	 */\cf0 \
	   \cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 void\cf0  showPostFix ()\
	   \{\
	      showPostFix ( \cf4 root\cf0  );\
	      System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println();\
	   \}\
\
	   \cf5 // \ul Postfix\ulnone  expression is the result of a post-order traversal\cf0 \
	   \cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 void\cf0  showPostFix ( TreeNode node )\
	   \{\
	      \cf3 if\cf0  ( node != \cf3 null\cf0  )\
	      \{\
	         showPostFix ( node.\cf4 left\cf0  );\
	         showPostFix ( node.\cf4 right\cf0  );\
	         System.\cf4 out\cf0 .print ( node + \cf6 " "\cf0  );\
	      \}\
	   \}\
\
	\cf2 /**\cf0 \
\cf2 	 * Show the expression tree as a prefix expression.\cf0 \
\cf2 	 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\cf0 \
\cf2 	 */\cf0 \
	   \cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 void\cf0  showPreFix ()\
	   \{\
	      showPreFix ( \cf4 root\cf0  );\
	      System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println();\
	   \}\
\
	   \cf5 // Prefix expression is the result of a \ul pre\ulnone -order traversal\cf0 \
	   \cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 void\cf0  showPreFix ( TreeNode node )\
	   \{  \cf5 // NOTE:  removing tail recursion\cf0 \
	      \cf3 while\cf0  ( node != \cf3 null\cf0  )\
	      \{\
	         System.\cf4 out\cf0 .print ( node + \cf6 " "\cf0  );\
	         showPreFix ( node.\cf4 left\cf0  );\
	         node = node.\cf4 right\cf0 ;  \cf5 // Update parameter for right traversal\cf0 \
	      \}\
	   \}
\f0\fs24 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs22 \cf3 import\cf0  java.io.IOException;\
\cf3 import\cf0  java.io.StreamTokenizer;\
\cf3 import\cf0  java.io.StringReader;\
\cf3 import\cf0  java.util.Scanner;\
\
\cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 class\cf0  Parse \cf3 implements\cf0  Expression \{\
\
	  Expression \cf4 add\cf0 ;\
	  Expression \cf4 sub\cf0 ;\
	  Expression \cf4 mul\cf0 ;\
	\
	  \cf2 /**\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 	    * One node in an expression tree, allowing double values.\cf0 \
\cf2 	    *\cf0 \
\cf2 	    * \cf7 @author\cf2   \ul Piter\ulnone  \ul Garcia\cf0 \ulnone \
\cf2 	    */\cf0 \
	   \cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 static\cf0  \cf3 class\cf0  ParseTree \{\
		   \cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 final\cf0  \cf3 boolean\cf0    \cf4 leaf\cf0 ;   \cf5 // ?Is this a leaf? else internal\cf0 \
		   \cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 final\cf0  \cf3 char\cf0         \cf4 op\cf0 ;   \cf5 // For an internal node, the operator\cf0 \
		   \cf3 private\cf0        \cf3 int\cf0       \cf4 value\cf0 ;   \cf5 // For a leaf, the value\cf0 \
		   \cf3 private\cf0        ParseTree  \cf4 left\cf0 ,  \cf5 // Left subexpression for an internal node\cf0 \
	                             \cf4 right\cf0 ;    \cf5 // Right subexpression\cf0 \
\
		   \cf5 // Bare-bones constructor\cf0 \
		   \cf3 private\cf0  ParseTree ( \cf3 boolean\cf0  leaf, \cf3 char\cf0  op, \cf3 int\cf0  value ) \{\
	         \
			   \cf3 this\cf0 .\cf4 leaf\cf0     = leaf;\
			   \cf3 this\cf0 .\cf4 op\cf0       = op;\
			   \cf3 this\cf0 .\cf4 value\cf0    = value;\
			   \cf3 this\cf0 .\cf4 left\cf0     = \cf3 null\cf0 ;   \cf5 // Empty to start\cf0 \
			   \cf3 this\cf0 .\cf4 right\cf0    = \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
		   \}\
\
		   \
		   \
		   \cf5 // For leaf nodes, show the value; for internal, the operator.\cf0 \
		   \cf5 // To override Object.toString, must be public.\cf0 \
		   \cf3 public\cf0  String toString() \{  \
	    	  \
			   \cf3 return\cf0  \cf4 leaf\cf0  ? Integer.toString(\cf4 value\cf0 ) : Character.toString(\cf4 op\cf0 ) ;  \
		   \}\
	   \}\
\
	   ParseTree \cf4 root\cf0  = \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
\
	   \cf3 public\cf0  Parse ( Scanner input )\{\
		   \cf4 root\cf0  = build(input);  \
	   \}\
\
	   \cf2 /**\cf0 \
\cf2 	    * Based on a white\cf8 -\cf2 space delimited prefix expression, build the\cf0 \
\cf2 	    * corresponding binary expression tree.\cf0 \
\cf2 	    * \cf7 @param\cf2   input  The scanner with the expression\cf0 \
\cf2 	    * \cf7 @return\cf2  reference to the corresponding binary expression tree\cf0 \
\cf2 	    */\cf0 \
	   \cf3 private\cf0  ParseTree build ( Scanner input )\{\
		   \
	   		\cf3 boolean\cf0   leaf;\
	   		String   token;\
	   		\cf3 int\cf0    value;\
	   		ParseTree node;\
	   		AddExpression \ul node1\ulnone ;\
\
	   		leaf = input.hasNextDouble();\
	   		\cf3 if\cf0  ( leaf )\{\
	         \
	   			value = input.nextInt();\
	   			node = \cf3 new\cf0  ParseTree ( leaf, \cf6 '\\0'\cf0 , value );\
	   		\}\
	   		\cf3 else\cf0 \{\
	         \
	   			token = input.next();\
	   			node  = \cf3 new\cf0  ParseTree ( leaf, token.charAt(0), 0 );\
	   			node.\cf4 left\cf0   = build ( input );\
	   			node.\cf4 right\cf0  = build ( input );\
	   		\}\
	   		\
	   		\cf3 return\cf0  node;\
	\
	   \}\
\
\
	   \
		\cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 static\cf0  Expression parse(StreamTokenizer st) \cf3 throws\cf0  IOException \{\
			\
			\cf3 int\cf0  type = \cf6 '('\cf0 ;\
			\cf3 while\cf0  (type == \cf6 '('\cf0  || type == \cf6 ')'\cf0 ) \{\
				type = st.nextToken();\
			\}\
			\
			\cf3 if\cf0  (type == StreamTokenizer.\cf4 TT_EOF\cf0 ) \{\
				parseError(\cf6 "Unexpected end of input."\cf0 );\
				\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
			\}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf5 //			\cf0 \
\cf5 //			else if (type == StreamTokenizer.TT_NUMBER) \{\cf0 \
\cf5 //				return NumExpression(st.nval);\cf0 \
\cf5 //			\}\cf0 \
			\
			\cf3 else\cf0  \cf3 if\cf0  (type == StreamTokenizer.\cf4 TT_WORD\cf0 ) \{\
				parseError(\cf6 "Unknown operator: "\cf0  + st.\cf4 sval\cf0 );\
				\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
			\}\
			\
			\cf3 else\cf0  \cf3 if\cf0  (type == \cf6 '+'\cf0  || type == \cf6 '-'\cf0  || type == \cf6 '*'\cf0  || type == \cf6 '/'\cf0 ) \{\
				Expression e1 = parse(st);\
				Expression e2 = parse(st);\
				\
				\cf3 switch\cf0  (type) \{\
				\cf3 case\cf0  \cf6 '+'\cf0 :\
					\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 new\cf0  AddExpression(e1, e2);\
				\cf3 case\cf0  \cf6 '-'\cf0 :\
					\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 new\cf0  SubExpression(e1, e2);\
				\cf3 default\cf0 :\
					\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 new\cf0  MulExpression(e1, e2);		\
				\}\
			\}\
			\
			\cf3 else\cf0  \{\
				parseError(\cf6 "Unknown operator: "\cf0  + (\cf3 char\cf0 )type);\
				\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
			\}\
		\}\
	   \
		\cf3 private\cf0  \cf3 static\cf0  \cf3 void\cf0  parseError(String msg) \{\
			System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Error in expression: "\cf0  + msg);\
			System.exit(-1);\
		\}\
		\
\
	   	\cf2 /**\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 	   	 * Show the expression tree as a parenthesized infix expression.\cf0 \
\cf2 	   	 * All the work is done in the private recursive method.\cf0 \
\cf2 	   	 */\cf0 \
	   \cf9 @Override\cf0 \
	   \cf3 public\cf0  String emit() \{\
	      emit ( \cf4 root\cf0  );\
	      \cf5 // System.out.println();\cf0 \
	      \cf3 return\cf0  emit ( \cf4 root\cf0  );\
	   \}\
\
	   \cf5 // Parenthesized infix requires parentheses in both the\cf0 \
	   \cf5 // \ul pre\ulnone -order and post-order positions, plus the node\cf0 \
	   \cf5 // itself in the in-order position.\cf0 \
	   \cf3 private\cf0  String emit ( ParseTree node ) \{\
	   		String temp = \cf6 ""\cf0 ;\
		   \
	   		\cf3 if\cf0  ( node != \cf3 null\cf0  ) \{\
	   			\cf5 // Note:  do NOT parenthesize leaf nodes\cf0 \
	   			\cf3 if\cf0  ( ! node.\cf4 leaf\cf0  )\{\
	   			\cf5 // System.out.print ("( ");        // \ul Pre\ulnone -order position\cf0 \
	   				temp = temp + \cf6 "("\cf0 ;\
	   			\}\
	         \
	   			temp = temp + emit ( node.\cf4 left\cf0  );\
	   			\cf5 // System.out.print ( node + " " ); // In-order position\cf0 \
	   			temp = ( temp + node + \cf6 " "\cf0 );\
	   			temp = temp + emit ( node.\cf4 right\cf0  );\
	         \
	   			\cf3 if\cf0  ( ! node.\cf4 leaf\cf0  ) \{                \cf5 // Post-order position\cf0 \
	   				\cf5 // System.out.print (") ");\cf0 \
	   				temp = temp + \cf6 ")"\cf0 ;\
	   			\}\
	   		\}\
	   		\cf3 return\cf0  temp;\
	   \}\
\
	   \cf2 /**\cf0 \
\cf2 	   	* Evaluate the expression and return its value.\cf0 \
\cf2 	   	* All the work is done in the private recursive method.\cf0 \
\cf2 	   	* \cf7 @return\cf2   the value of the expression tree.\cf0 \
\cf2 	   	*/\cf0 \
	   \cf9 @Override\cf0 \
	   \cf3 public\cf0  Integer evaluate ()\{  \
	   		\cf3 return\cf0  (\cf3 int\cf0 ) (\cf4 root\cf0  == \cf3 null\cf0  ? 0 : evaluate ( \cf4 root\cf0  )) ;  \
	   \}\
\
	   \cf5 // Evaluate the expression:  for internal nodes, this amounts\cf0 \
	   \cf5 // to a post-order traversal, in which the processing is doing\cf0 \
	   \cf5 // the actual arithmetic.  For leaf nodes, it is simply the\cf0 \
	   \cf5 // value of the node.\cf0 \
	   \cf3 private\cf0  Integer evaluate ( ParseTree node ) \{\
	   		Integer result;    \cf5 // Value to be returned\cf0 \
	   		\
	   		\cf3 if\cf0  ( node.\cf4 leaf\cf0  )        \cf5 // Just get the value of the leaf\cf0 \
	   			result = node.\cf4 value\cf0 ;\
	   		\cf3 else\cf0  \{\
	   			\cf5 // We've got work to do, evaluating the expression\cf0 \
	   			Integer left, right;\
	   			\cf3 char\cf0    operator = node.\cf4 op\cf0 ;\
\
	   			\cf5 // Capture the values of the left and right subexpressions\cf0 \
	   			left  = evaluate ( node.\cf4 left\cf0  );\
	   			right = evaluate ( node.\cf4 right\cf0  );\
\
	   			\cf5 // Do the arithmetic, based on the operator\cf0 \
	   			\cf3 switch\cf0  ( operator ) \{\
	   				\cf3 case\cf0  \cf6 '-'\cf0 :  \
	   					result = left - right;  \cf3 break\cf0 ;\
	   				\cf3 case\cf0  \cf6 '*'\cf0 :  \
	   					result = left * right;  \cf3 break\cf0 ;\
\
	   				\cf5 // NOTE:  allow fall-through from default to case '+'\cf0 \
	   				\cf3 default\cf0 :   System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println (\cf6 "Unrecognized operator "\cf0  +\
	                          operator + \cf6 " treated as +."\cf0 );\
	   				\cf3 case\cf0  \cf6 '+'\cf0 :  \
	   					result = left + right;  \cf3 break\cf0 ;\
	   			\}\
	   		\}\
	   		\cf5 // Return either the leaf's value or the one we just calculated.\cf0 \
	   		\cf3 return\cf0  result;\
	   \}\
\
	   \
	   \cf3 public\cf0  Parse()\{\
		 \
	   \}\
	 \
	   \cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 static\cf0  \cf3 void\cf0  main( String[] args)\{\
	   		\cf5 //Parse test = new Parse();\cf0 \
	   		Scanner in = \cf3 new\cf0  Scanner(\cf6 "+ 2 * 3 4"\cf0 );\
		 \
	   		System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Welcome to Interp v1.0"\cf0 );\
\
			System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Enter prefix expressions, RETURN to quit..."\cf0 );\
			\cf3 while\cf0 (in.hasNext())\{\
			    System.\cf4 out\cf0 .print(\cf6 "Interp> "\cf0 );\
			    String s = in.nextLine();\
\
			    \cf3 if\cf0  (s.isEmpty())\{\
				\cf3 break\cf0 ;\
			    \}\
			    Expression e = \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
				\cf3 try\cf0  \{\
					e = Parse.parseString(s);\
				\} \cf3 catch\cf0  (IOException e1) \{\
					\cf5 // \cf7 TODO\cf5  Auto-generated catch block\cf0 \
					e1.printStackTrace();\
				\}\
			    \cf3 if\cf0  (e == \cf3 null\cf0 )\{\
			    	System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Syntax Error."\cf0 );\
			    \} \cf3 else\cf0  \{\
			    	System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Infix expression: "\cf0  + e.emit());\
				Integer result = e.evaluate();\
				\cf3 if\cf0  (result == \cf3 null\cf0 ) \{\
				    System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Run time error."\cf0 );\
				\} \cf3 else\cf0  \{\
				    System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Evaluation: "\cf0  + result);\
				\}\
			    \}\
			\}\
			System.\cf4 out\cf0 .println(\cf6 "Goodbye Interp."\cf0 );\
\
	   \}\
\
	   \cf3 public\cf0  \cf3 static\cf0  Expression parseString(String s) \cf3 throws\cf0  IOException \{\
		\
	\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf5 //		   Scanner \ul sc\ulnone  = new Scanner(s);\cf0 \
\cf5 //		   Parse test = new Parse(\ul sc\ulnone );\cf0 \
\cf5 //		\cf0 \
\cf5 //		   return test;\cf0 \
		   \
			StreamTokenizer st = \cf3 new\cf0  StreamTokenizer(\cf3 new\cf0  StringReader(s));\
			st.ordinaryChar(\cf6 '/'\cf0 );\
			Expression exp = parse(st);\
			\
			\cf3 int\cf0  type;\
			\cf3 while\cf0  ((type = st.nextToken()) == \cf6 ')'\cf0  ) \cf3 continue\cf0 ;\
			\cf3 if\cf0  (type != StreamTokenizer.\cf4 TT_EOF\cf0 ) \{\
				parseError(\cf6 "Unexpected input at end of expression."\cf0 );\
				\cf3 return\cf0  \cf3 null\cf0 ;\
			\}\
			\
			\cf3 else\cf0  \{\
				\cf3 return\cf0  exp;\
			\}\
	   \}\
\}}